---

layout:	post
title: ".files"
author: "krishna"
excerpt: "a boring dotfiles walkthrough"
keywords: vim, ubuntu, windows, dotfiles, linux, ranger, tmux

---

> hey, you're finally awake! that hdd failure looked real bad. dotfiles? ubuntu? what are you talking about? let's go update windows

## but, why?

contrary to the above joke, i actually made the switch to ubuntu after using virtual machines for a year or so in windows. thus, my hdd failure was a bittersweet experience. i also went about using TUI applications extensively and configuring them as per my needs and **that** is what this blog post will be about.

## 'nuff said

[**dotfiles**](https://github.com/lordlabuckdas/dotfiles)

after losing all my previous dotfiles, i realized it is high-time i make a [dotfiles repo](https://dotfiles.github.io/) for backup (and to flex it ofc). oh, one thing to note - almost all of my config themes are dracula because it is undoubtedly the best theme to exist in this universe.

## neovim

[`init.vim`](https://github.com/lordlabuckdas/dotfiles/blob/master/.config/nvim/init.vim)

neovim was one of the first applications i went back to rice. i use a few plugins for ranger, fzf, git integration and markdown note-taking. i also plan to use coc in the future for intellisense and auto-completions.

## vscode

[`Settings.json`](https://github.com/lordlabuckdas/dotfiles/blob/master/.config/Code/User/settings.json)

i rarely use vscode nowadays, but you gotta agree that the extension ecosystem in vscode is just beautiful - right from foam to remote container <3.

## tmux

[`.tmux.conf`](https://github.com/lordlabuckdas/dotfiles/blob/master/.tmux.conf)

i switched from terminator to tmux and it has been nice. i use tpm just for dracula and it has been worth it. there was a book which i'll later which had pretty good info about starting with tmux. most of my key-binds are inspired from that book.

## ranger

[`rc.conf`](https://github.com/lordlabuckdas/dotfiles/blob/master/.config/ranger/rc.conf)

my rc.conf is rather simple-looking, a couple of settings for image preview using `ueberzug`, to show hidden files and that's all.

## takeaway

if you use an unix-based operating system and don't use these tools, you should. they are pretty awesome and will definitely boost your productivity by a huge margin - not that i'm very productive, but hey, at the end of the day,

**vim >>>> emacs**
