---

layout:	post
title: "oh, i use arch btw"
author: "krishna"
excerpt: "a 5-minute long blog post on why arch + dwm + vim is awesome"
keywords: vim, ubuntu, windows, dotfiles, linux, ranger, tmux

---

> hey, you're finally awake! that hdd failure looked real bad. dotfiles? arch? what are you talking about? let's go update windows

## but, why?

contrary to the above joke, i actually made the switch to arch linux after using ubuntu virtual machines for a year or so in windows. thus, my hdd failure was a bittersweet experience. i also went about using CLI applications extensively and configuring them as per my needs and **that** is what this blog post will be about.

## aaaaaaaarch

the arch installation was pretty straight-forward. the lts kernel has been treating me nice and it has been a very smooth journey.

friendship broken with release cycles - rolling release is now my best friend. considering what i heard about rolling releases, my system has been surprisingly stable and the updates have never broken any functionality.

## DE vs WM

with me living in the terminal, DE wouldn't make a difference, so i wanted it to be lightweight. i planned to go with XFCE until i remembered about those bspwm, dwm and i3 rices on r/unixporn. the suckless philosophy and design was very alluring, so i went with dwm. bspwm was a close contender but i'll keep that for another time. needless to say, i'm loving the experience right now.

## 'nuff said

[**link to dotfiles**](https://github.com/lordlabuckdas/dotfiles)

after losing all of my previous dotfiles, i realized it was high-time i made a [dotfiles repo](https://dotfiles.github.io/) for backup (and to flex it ofc).

oh, one thing to note - almost everything is dracula-based because it is undoubtedly the best theme to exist in this universe.

neovim is my go-to text-editor. i've recently shifted to nvchad from my old vimscript config and it's been amazing - the 10ms startup time especially. i occasionally turn to vscode (read codium) for its extensions.
